=======================
Contribution Guidelines
=======================

In the Contribution Guide, you will find documented policies for
developing with Monasca. This includes the processes we use for
blueprints and specs, bugs and other procedural items.

Monasca, as with all OpenStack projects, is written with the following
design guidelines in mind:

* **Component based architecture**: Quickly add new behaviors
* **Highly available**: Scale to very serious workloads
* **Fault tolerant**: Isolated processes avoid cascading failures
* **Recoverable**: Failures should be easy to diagnose, debug, and rectify
* **Open standards**: Be a reference implementation for a community-driven api

Workflow
~~~~~~~~

Our process is meant to allow users, developers, and operators to express their
desires for new features using Storyboard stories. The workflow is very simple:

* If something is clearly broken, submit a `bug report`_ in Storyboard.
* If you want to change or add a feature, submit a `story`_ in Storyboard.
* Monasca core reviewers may request that you submit a `specification`_ to
  gerrit to elaborate on the feature request.
* Significant features require `release notes`_ to be included when the code is
  merged.

.. _bug report:

Bug Reports
-----------

Current bugs can be found in this `Worklist
<https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/worklist/213>`_.

When filing a bug please remember to add the *bug* tag to the story. Please
provide information on what the problem is, how to replicate it, any
suggestions for fixing it, and a recommendation of the priority.

.. _story:

Stories
-------

New features can be proposed in `Storyboard
<https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/project_group/59>`_ as new Story.

The initial story primarily needs to express the intent of the idea with
enough details that it can be evaluated for compatibility with the project
mission and whether or not the change requires a `specification`_. It is *not*
expected to contain all of the implementation details. If the feature is very
simple and well understood by the team, then describe it simply. The story is
then used to track all the related code reviews. Team members will
request more information as needed.

.. _specification:

Specifications
--------------

We use the `monasca-specs <https://github.com/openstack/monasca-specs>`_
repository for specification reviews. Specifications:

* Provide a review tool for collaborating on feedback and reviews for complex
  features.
* Collect team priorities.
* Serve as the basis for documenting the feature once implemented.
* Ensure that the overall impact on the system is considered.

.. _release notes:

Release Notes
-------------

The release notes for a patch should be included in the patch. If not, the
release notes should be in a follow-on review.

If any of the following applies to the patch, a release note is required:

* The deployer needs to take an action when upgrading
* A new feature is implemented
* Plugin API function was removed or changed
* Current behavior is changed
* A new config option is added that the deployer should consider changing from
  the default
* A security bug is fixed
* Change may break previous versions of the client library(ies)
* Requirement changes are introduced for important libraries like oslo, six
  requests, etc.
* Deprecation period starts or code is purged

A release note is suggested if a long-standing or important bug is fixed.
Otherwise, a release note is not required.

Developer reference
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   code

This documentation is generated by the Sphinx toolkit and lives in the source
tree. Additional documentation on Monasca and other components of OpenStack can
be found on the `OpenStack wiki <http://wiki.openstack.org>`_.
